ENGDOCS-2060 (#19793)
docker/docker.github.io: content/desktop/install/msi/install-and-configure.md

> **Important**
>
> Admin rights are required to run any of the following commands.
{ .important }

#### Installing interactively with verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /i "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log"
```

#### Installing interactively without verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /i "DockerDesktop.msi"
```

#### Installing non-interactively with verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /i "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log" /quiet
```

#### Installing non-interactively and suppressing reboots

```powershell
msiexec /i "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log" /quiet /norestart
```

#### Installing non-interactively with Admin settings

```powershell
msiexec /i "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log" /quiet /norestart ADMINSETTINGS="{"configurationFileVersion":2,"enhancedContainerIsolation":{"value":true,"locked":false}}" ALLOWEDORG="docker.com"
```

> **Tip**
>
> Some useful tips to remember when creating a value that expects a JSON string as it’s value:
> 
> - The property expects a JSON formatted string
> - The string should be wrapped in double quotes
> - The string should not contain any whitespace
> - Property names are expected to be in double quotes
{ .tip }

> 

Reviewer: New section?

## Installing with the passive display option

When installing the MSI you can use the [`/passive` display option](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/standard-installer-command-line-options#passive). This would typically replace `/quiet` in scenarios where you want to perform a non-interactive installation but show a progress dialog.

In passive mode the installer won't display any prompts or error messages to the user and the installation cannot be cancelled.

For example;

```powershell
msiexec /i "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log" /passive /norestart
```

#### Uninstalling interactively with verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log"
```

#### Uninstalling interactively without verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi"
```

#### Uninstalling non-interactively without verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi" /quiet
```

> 

Reviewer: And under this we should probably have this note:

When uninstalling Docker Desktop with `msiexec` you need to use the same .msi file that was originally used to install the application.

If you no longer have the original .msi file available, you will need to use the product code associated with the installation. 

```powershell
Get-WmiObject Win32_Product | Select-Object IdentifyingNumber, Name | Where-Object {$_.Name -eq "Docker Desktop"}
```
> This command can take some time to return, depending on the number of installed applications.

```powershell
IdentifyingNumber                      Name
-----------------                      ----
{10FC87E2-9145-4D7D-B493-2E99E8D8E103} Docker Desktop
```

**IdentifyingNumber** is the applications product code and can be used to uninstall Docker Desktop:

```powershell
msiexec /x {10FC87E2-9145-4D7D-B493-2E99E8D8E103} /L*V ".\msi.log" /quiet
```

### Configuration options 

> **Important**
>
> In addition to the following custom properties, the Docker Desktop MSI installer also supports the standard [Windows Installer command line options](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/standard-installer-command-line-options).
{ .important }

| Property | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `ENABLEDESKTOPSHORTCUT` | Creates a desktop shortcut. | 1 |
| `INSTALLFOLDER` | Specifies a custom location where Docker Desktop will be installed. | C:\Program Files\Docker |
| `ADMINSETTINGS` | Automatically creates an `admin-settings.json` file which is used to [control certain Docker Desktop settings](../../hardened-desktop/settings-management/_index.md) on client machines within organizations. It must be used together with the `ALLOWEDORG` property. | None |

> | `ALLOWEDORG` | Requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub organization when running the application. This creates the `regsitry.json` file containing the specified organisations. | None |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ALLOWEDORG` | Requires the user to sign in and be part of the specified Docker Hub organization when running the application. This creates the a registry key called allowedOrgs in `HKLM\Software\Policies\Docker\Docker Desktop`.
```

{10FC87E2-9145-4D7D-B493-2E99E8D8E103} Docker Desktop
```
> **Note**
>
> This command can take some time to return, depending on the number of installed applications.

`IdentifyingNumber` is the applications product code and can be used to uninstall Docker Desktop. For example:

```powershell
msiexec /x {10FC87E2-9145-4D7D-B493-2E99E8D8E103} /L*V ".\msi.log" /quiet
```

#### Uninstalling interactively with verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log"
```

#### Uninstalling interactively without verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi"
```

#### Uninstalling non-interactively with verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi" /L*V ".\msi.log" /quiet
```

#### Uninstalling non-interactively without verbose logging

```powershell
msiexec /x "DockerDesktop.msi" /quiet
```

### Configuration options 

> **Important**
>
> In addition to the following custom properties, the Docker Desktop MSI installer also supports the standard [Windows Installer command line options](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/msi/standard-installer-command-line-options).
{ .important }

> | Property | Description | Default |

Reviewer: @aevesdocker Please could you add a new property to the table?

`DISABLEANALYTICS` | When set to `1`, analytics collection will be disabled for the MSI.

| `OVERRIDEPROXYHTTP` | Sets the URL of the HTTP proxy that must be used for outgoing HTTP requests. | None |
| `OVERRIDEPROXYHTTPS` | Sets the URL of the HTTP proxy that must be used for outgoing HTTPS requests. | None |
| `OVERRIDEPROXYEXCLUDE` | Bypasses proxy settings for the hosts and domains. Uses a comma-separated list. | None |
| `HYPERVDEFAULTDATAROOT` | Specifies the default location for the Hyper-V VM disk. | None |
| `WINDOWSCONTAINERSDEFAULTDATAROOT` | Specifies the default location for Windows containers. | None |
| `WSLDEFAULTDATAROOT` | Specifies the default location for the WSL distribution disk. | None |
| `DISABLEANALYTICS` | When set to 1, analytics collection will be disabled for the MSI. For more information, see [Analytics](#analytics). | 0 |

Additionally, you can also use `/norestart` or `/forcerestart` to control reboot behaviour.

By default, the installer reboots the machine after a successful installation. When ran silently, the reboot is automatic and the user is not prompted.

## Updates 

When installing Docker Desktop with the MSI, in-app updates are disabled.

> Docker Desktop will notify you when an update is available. To update Docker Desktop, download the latest installer from the Docker Admin console. Navigate to the  **Deploy Docker Desktop** page under **Security and access**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Docker Desktop will notify you when an update is available. To update Docker Desktop, download the latest installer from the Docker Admin Console. Navigate to the  **Deploy Docker Desktop** page under **Security and access**. 
```

---
title: Install and configure
description: Understand how to use the MSI installer. Also explore additional configuration options.
keywords: msi, windows, docker desktop, install, deploy, configure
---

## Install 

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="Install interactively" >}}

> TODO

Reviewer: I think for this tab we can mostly copy what already exists.. and for some extra clarity, [this notion page](https://www.notion.so/dockerinc/MSI-v1-Screens-For-Review-dbf0823c6cf24bdaa69d901e088d6c61) has all of the screens for the install.

1. Download the installer using the download button at the top of the page, or from the [download page](TODO).
2. Double-click DockerDesktop.msi to run the installer. By default, Docker Desktop is installed at `C:\Program Files\Docker\Docker`.

3. From the Installation options dialog, you can configure:

  - Create a desktop shortcut

  - Set the Docker Desktop service startup type to automatic

  - Disable Windows Container usage for this installation

  - The engine for Docker Desktop. Either WSL or Hyper-V

If your system only supports one of the two options, you will not be able to select which backend to use.

Follow the instructions on the installation wizard to authorize the installer and proceed with the install.

When the installation is successful, select Finish to complete the installation process.

If your admin account is different to your user account, you must add the user to the docker-users group:

1. Run Computer Management as an administrator.
2. Navigate to Local Users and Groups > Groups > docker-users.
3. Right-click to add the user to the group.
4. Sign out and sign back in for the changes to take effect.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="Install from the command line" >}}

> TODO

Reviewer: I can't remember what we agreed for this tab.. it slightly overlaps with installation scenarios iirc.

Would it make sense to move the `Configuration options` section inside the tab?
